we've had the great portion of featuring
some truly extraordinary women on impact
theory and in this very special episode
we'll share some of the most powerful
lessons they've learned on their journey
to success these inspiring women have
exceeded what the world has told them
they can be and achieve and whether
we're talking about an athlete like
Kerri walsh-jennings
a business magnate like Sarah Rob
o'hagan or an inspirational powerhouse
like Mel Robbins each of these women
have stories worth telling and lessons
worth listening to
really really closely and if you want to
succeed whether in business or in life
pay attention I know I did
[Music]
oh my gosh thank you I know you called
me the master of motivation and I think
motivation is complete garbage so maybe
we should start there that is a perfect
place to start so I totally agree with
you but why do you say that I do 100%
now I said that in the spirit of I know
what you're trying to do so it is met
with absolute reverence uh-huh but why
do you say that it's garbage well and
we'll talk a lot about this but I think
it's garbage because at some point we
all bought into this lie that you've got
a feel ready in order to change yeah we
bought into this this complete falsehood
that at some point you're gonna have the
courage at some point you're gonna have
the confidence and it's total [__]
frankly I don't know real add to swear
at absolute okay it's it's complete
garbage and so there are so many people
in the world and and and you know you
may be watching this right now and you
have these incredible ideas and what you
think is missing is motivation and
that's not true
because the way that our minds are wired
and the fact about human beings is that
we are not designed to do things that
are uncomfortable or scary or difficult
our brains are designed to protect us
from those things because our brains are
trying to keep us alive and in order to
change in order to build a business in
order to be the best parent the best
spouse to do all those things that you
know you want to do with your life with
your work with your dreams you're gonna
have to do things that are difficult
uncertain or scary which sets up this
problem for all of us
you're never gonna feel like it
motivations garbage you you only feel
motivated to do the things that are easy
right what do you think that is oh I
know exactly why that is because I I've
studied this so much because for me one
of the hardest things to figure out was
why is it so hard to do the little
things that would improve my life and
what I've come to realize and what we'll
talk a lot about today is that the way
that our minds are designed is
our minds are designed to stop you at
all costs from doing anything that might
hurt you and the way that that that that
this all happens is it all starts with
something super subtle that none of us
ever catch and that is with this habit
that all of us have that nobody's
talking about we all have a habit of
hesitating mm-hmm you can truly trace
every single problem or complaint in
your life to silence and hesitation
those are decisions and what I do and
what's changed my life is waking up and
realizing that motivations garbage I'm
never gonna feel like doing the things
that are tough for difficult or
uncertain or scary or new so I need to
stop waiting until I feel like it and
number two I am one decision away from a
totally different marriage a totally
different life a totally different job a
totally different income a totally
different relationship with my kids your
life comes down to your decisions and if
you change your decisions you will
change everything
but I know the next question is gonna be
so how do I find the right path what
what is that process yeah you know for
me I went through this phase where I
just stopped saying no to things so when
I first started youtube I thought okay
I'm I'm opening the gates up to this new
platform and this new type of creation
I've never done before but I've also
started going to shows more often I
started to meet different types of
people I think a big part of finding out
what's right for you is stop confining
yourself to a path that you've been
convinced is the path this what I'm
doing right now is nowhere on the path
for a young Indian girl that's a part of
my family like this is nowhere on the
path it was very much so go to school
and get married and have kids and that's
the success if you if you're able to
have those kids and give my mom some
grandkids you're successful and I think
it's about really stepping outside of
that and exploring whether that's in
school and taking classes that you might
not take at first glance whether it's
going and experiencing different types
of arts meeting different types of
people making new friends I think
there's so much out there that you don't
even know exists and I'm a testament to
that I make videos on the Internet
ask my mom if she thought I could have
been a job when she was growing up you
know so I think it's all about just
really getting out there and seeing
what's available and so then what are
the signs that somebody should look for
to know that okay this is something that
resonates I think okay I love sleep I
just do have said I love sleep but
there's some mornings when I wake up and
I'm like I don't even care how tired I
am I'm so excited about this day so I
think being excited to wake up
also you'll just see it in your energy I
think as well a little pep in your step
I have when I'm walking to set is really
telling also the people you surround
yourself with I think when you start to
get surrounded by people and my team is
a great example of this that really
bring out the best in you and you feel
yourself growing and learning and maybe
a little more patient or a little more
creative or you think about things a
little differently any type of evolution
like that I think is definitely signs
we're doing the right thing you know
this this entire career path has been
everything but comfortable no part of
its comfortable so even on the days when
I come home and I think that was
horrible that audition was horrible I
can literally feel part of me evolving
as like okay what you did it and now you
know for the next one what to do you'll
know what to expect for the next one and
those scary things are all signs that
you
the right thing cuz you're growing all
right so if you were gonna leave for
your kids a few rules suggestions about
how to build a Champions mindset and
then that was it they could never talk
to you again
what would you leave them yeah do that
to me how to make it hard oh my goodness
um how to build a Champions mindset
let's see I'm just gonna have to start
running things off let's do it
so I mean I don't know how many things I
have but I'm just gonna have to go for
it so first thing is you have to you
have to say okay what is it that's gonna
make me happy what is it that I want
then you have to map out a plan right in
order to get there and you might have to
enlist some help from other people you
might not have all these answers for
yourself and be too overwhelming to
think you have to do it alone but that's
the first thing you got to do and then
you got a so you got to get that right
team of people in place that are gonna
help you along the way know more than
you know be honest with you you know so
you don't start thinking your own [__]
doesn't stink you know and then you have
to be willing to do the hard work that
it takes and you have to go into it
knowing that there's gonna be roadblocks
there's gonna be challenges that's just
something you should expect so when you
see it it's not gonna throw you off
right and then you have to just kind of
have faith and then when you have your
moments of weakness you have to you know
for me from what I believe in a higher
being
I believe in God I'm a spiritual person
so it's like I'll have those talks and
say you know please give me the strength
to get through this give me the strength
to be focused and then I really trust
that that's gonna come I'll just ask for
it and then next thing I know things
kind of just work out you know so that I
feel like that is something that I can
always lean on so no matter what's going
on you know I'm gonna get through this
so you know I think that that's pretty
much it I mean there's a lot more that
we can say obviously but that's really
what it comes down to is knowing that
you know you have what it takes to make
it you know it might not happen in the
time that you want it to happen but it
will happen and these are all things I
think that people who are successful
have said before right so I'm not really
saying anything different but if I'm
talking to a child I would kind of keep
it simple and and put it like that and I
would
say write it down you know write it down
and sometimes you're gonna forget cuz
you're gonna get emotional and if you're
like me you're gonna maybe have a bad
memory and you might need to refer to
your notes you know and that's something
that you have to do you have to say it
you have to think it you have to write
it and you have to really believe it in
your heart no matter what it is if you
were in Steven Hawkings situation what
would you if your attention to I would
yeah so I've actually if I couldn't race
and if I couldn't express myself
physically because I've talked about is
that I've when I haven't been able to
use my legs I've had to use my voice hmm
and so what's really been empowering for
me this past year is to be an advocate
for the sport be an advocate for
obstacle racing it's such a new sport
and we have such an opportunity as
athletes to help shape it and where it
goes and will it make it to the Olympics
or what will it do so for me it would be
shaping that and also really I'm really
passionate about women and sport and
about women and you know women equality
and sport things like that and so using
that voice how do you think we get to
that how do we man I mean that's been a
question for how many years at this
point
but it's really we've come a long way
but it's really just more and more it's
women standing up but it's also men
standing up you know it's everyone
regardless of of making sure that you
know prize purses for women are the same
across genders you see some sports where
men get a hundred thousand dollars and
women get fifty thousand dollars for
winning the same freakin race I don't
get it and so that is something that
there needs to be there needs to be a
constant dialogue about it and
unfortunately you know we're still not
there about getting there so I know
decorum is gonna force you to give me a
really humble answer to this question
and I'll maybe push you a bit but what
do you think your impact has been by you
beat the vast majority of the men that
you race against I mean
vast majority so do you think that's
helping do we need more people that are
playing at that level that can really
show up in in dazzle quite frankly but I
wouldn't want diem back to be is to
start to normalize that conversation
because people will say oh my god you
they oh my god she got second overall or
she she won that 50k oh right
like it's some crazy strange thing
mm-hmm
and that's great it brings attention to
it but was if we keep thinking about
that as an outlier it's not gonna shift
we need to be like look dude that woman
one that's awesome that's cool that's a
woman one right and if we can normalize
that then that's when I think we've
really made progress
[Music]
what do you think is has been the secret
to your success and one thing I'd love
you to touch on is you said I never saw
myself as a great female executive I was
just the best executive yeah so one why
how'd you not fall into that and then to
like what makes a great executive I come
from New Zealand and we many people may
not know were the first country in the
world to give women the vote really
thirty years before the United States
that amazing and I have wondered is that
why as a woman I grew up with a set of
different cultural guardrails because I
remember coming to America and
discovering what title nine was and I
was like why would you need something
like that like it just never occurred to
me growing up that as a female I
couldn't do anything that I wanted to do
and and it's it's funny I think now for
women I'd give sheryl sandberg clearly
so much credit and love for what she's
done to start this conversation on you
know what we need to do to get more
women into leadership roles and I feel
like sometimes we can get all of the
data in our way and use that almost as a
reason to not take the step because like
there's so much incredibly real data
that says that you you know are not
going to get funded in the same way as a
guy well you you won't you know so
you've just got to almost say those are
today's circumstances but they're not a
reason not to change and move it forward
and you know I think for me I just have
worked in predominantly male industries
the whole way through and it just I've
never even really noticed that I was the
only woman at the table very often I
just was like well [__] I'm here and so
I'm gonna do the best I can and it's up
to me to outperform my peer group
whoever they are
and the place that I want to start is
actually the dedication to your book
which I shouldn't have been surprised by
it but for some reason I was and I'll
paraphrase it was to all the girls out
there who have big dreams think bigger
work harder and I thought whoa why why
think bigger why work harder you know I
think for me there were so many times in
my life that I was told no I was told I
wasn't good enough I wasn't strong
enough I wasn't fast enough I was too
skinny so many things where people just
didn't believe in me and I think you
know I owe a lot to my parents which I'm
sure we'll get into but I just feel like
they truly taught me to believe in my
dreams and I had this huge dream of you
know winning that all-around gold medal
at the Olympics and not many people
believed in me but when I was able to
kind of set that dream in that goal and
I knew it was like this huge goal that
you know for so many years for an
American gymnast it was unattainable and
unachievable so Mary Lou Retton won in
1984 and then one of my closest friends
and teammates Carly Patterson won in
2004 so had been 20 years before an
American gymnast won and so being able
to train in the same gym as Carly the
gym that my parents started was was
really something that inspired me every
single day because she kind of made me
believe that this is possible you know
it is possible for an American gymnast
to do that and so I think just being
able to see that every single day
inspired me that being said I just feel
like so many times there's people around
you whether they're in your life or now
social media you know people are always
going to tell you no and people are
always going to like roll your eyes when
you tell them your dream or your goal
and I think what I realized throughout
my career and continue to realize is
that those dreams and those goals are
within reach and they're you know just
at the tip of our fingertips and if we
really want to do it it's it's far
beyond obvious
then just like work hard and believe in
yourself you know you have to do a few
more things in between all of that but I
just think with young girls today that
it's important for them to have a voice
and to believe in that voice so talking
about your frame of mind which I found
really really interesting and and you've
talked about it saying I have something
else it isn't just the work ethic in
fact I'm gonna paraphrase this gonna be
really close everyone that plays tennis
has work ethic so that isn't what
separated me from everybody else what
separated me from everybody else was
that other thing what is that other
thing I always think there are there are
things that just can't be measured like
you know I don't know if they're in thin
air or they're another planet or what
but like they're and a lot of sports are
measured by numbers so you have
statistics and you have all the point
percentages and like I'll talk to my
coach and he'll show me actual patterns
of a player or where they serve so I'm
aware of it in a match and all that is
important but when you're deep enough in
a match or you're deep in a third set
like so much is you rely so more I do on
my mind and what I believe is right in
that moment on my instinct and whether
it's the repetition that I formed with
all the years that I've played or it's
the discipline that I've that I've
formed or it's just the experience that
will kick in no numbers are important
and you must rely on them but there are
things that like you don't mean Andre
Agassi had the school you don't have to
be better than everyone else in the draw
when you go out on the court like you
have to be better than someone that's
across the net and whether that is at a
very high level whether that's at a low
level whatever it is it doesn't matter
you can't can be great every single day
like there's only a handful of times
where I've gone on the court and felt
like I did everything well no it's
impossible
well I go to this place in my life where
people say like you know what are one of
the biggest lessons you've learned and
to me it's like not to compare myself to
others because that's just the recipe
for failure right I'm never gonna be you
and never gonna be as articulate or
passion there to convey myself like you
do I'm never gonna have misty Mae's hand
or her ball control and I for so long I
compared myself against the greats and
be like [__] I'm falling short like I
need to become them to become great
which is just [__] you know and once
I stopped you know honestly comparing
myself and owning myself and being
inspired by them and stealing all the
best parts of them and making my own
like that is so much more powerful you
know and so I want to do that for the
rest of my life and I I'm not a literal
person you know like I think there's all
shades of grey and life is a [__]
rainbow and it's not black and white and
thank God because I am like an
in-the-moment person that I could
contradict myself from one to the next
but I'm not bullshitting I get to my
truth and this is my experience and I
believe that we're always in flux and
we're always expanding you know so
please take me with a grain of salt but
know that I mean my [__] you know it's
like this weird like there's so many - I
caught a museum II and I feel like
sometimes I'm nonsensical but I know
what the [__] I want and I know who I am
and I know that what I want is gonna
help me become more of a of what I am
[Music]
last night question four where I was
going how do you identify or cultivate
or whatever that word is the truest
version of yourself but just to
piggyback on what Jesus said my work
seems to be about the very entire
relationship but it's really about
healing
the child within the parent and in that
respect it's for every human being I
would agree that every human being is a
child so it's in the under the umbrella
and the guise of the parent wanting to
pick up the book because it's about the
child but when they pick it up and they
realize this is about how they have to
yet confront who it is they truly are so
to your question how do you develop the
truest self well most of us have been
divorced from it this is the tragic
truth for the reasons I said we've been
given a prescription we've been raised
through a conditioned lens not a lens
that truly honors who it is we are so in
order to now recover that we have to
peel back the layers we have to undo all
that has been done to us so we have to
read question all that we should have
never been given answers to and we
should have been allowed to discover on
our own such as who is God what is God
what is religion what is beauty what is
achievement what is success what is
truth
write those questions those big life
questions should have been led to us not
given to us we should have been led to
discover them this should not have been
given to us packaged because maybe they
don't work for us and it is through the
discovery of those answers that we
discover who it is we are and we
discover our relationship with the
universe so we are robbing our children
of this valuable process by handing them
this list all we need to do really is
just to guide them and the most
essential thing we need to do is
discover those answers for ourselves and
value the sovereign right to muddle and
fumble and stumble and mess up because
when we value it and see how much it's
given us we let our children suffer we
let our children fumble because we know
where it's going to take them because we
saw where it took us this is the
greatest lesson for parents to realize
the power of pain and our desire to fix
it for our children and to control it
because we're trying to mitigate and
control it for ourselves but we've never
been able to but this is the universe's
biggest lesson you have to surrender
life is pain life is unpredictable it's
it's a curveball it's a crapshoot it's
some adventure and if you don't live it
waking up every day saying maybe this is
the day I will fully give it all up and
change and start anew we're so afraid to
mold the skin we're so afraid so we'd
much rather live in the conformity of
stagnancy
you know as long as we remain the same
you know it's much easier but life is
not that you know so all spiritual
lessons of the Mystics are ever-present
in this potential of this moment you
know and our children show us that we're
just afraid pain is the greatest teacher
doesn't mean youself flagellate and
self-inflict
it just means you you don't hold
yourself back in the fear of it you just
live fully you talked about having scar
tissue from growing up and you you maybe
downplayed it a little bit here in your
book and then some of your talks you've
talked a lot about like not having the
TV parents with accents always being
because your parents were moving you
moved like an insane number of times
yeah 12 times so moving around so much
to stay in essentially wealthy
neighborhoods so that you could go to
the best public schools and that you
know kids can be really really cruel so
going through that then coming out of it
I think that breaks most people why
didn't it break you what were you saying
to yourself mentally because I'm sure at
the time you weren't thinking oh this is
really gonna make me a great
entrepreneur you're just trying to get
through it but what were you telling
yourself to get through it I think for
me my refuge was in helping other people
I started doing community service in
high school and for me it was this
refuge maybe seeing people who had it
even worse than me put my own suffering
in context maybe it made me feel like I
could somehow transform hurt and pain
that I was feeling into something
positive in the world you know looking
back on it I feel like maybe that was
the original impetus for me to do this
work you have magic words for somebody
who's going through something similar
but their response is to close down it's
not to open up they're not being
propelled forward they're being held
back because I've met people that they
fall into both camps like really similar
circumstances but just diametrically
opposed responses
like do you have the the magic sentence
that you know would help somebody jump
from closing down to opening up the only
real power we have in the world is
choosing our response we can't choose
what happens to us we can get stuck into
situations where we are abused where we
are not treated fairly where any number
of bad things can happen and so the only
choice we can make is how to respond and
I find that that knowledge gives me so
much freedom because if something bad is
happening to me that I can say is beyond
my control I can say well at least you
know I have the power in my response to
show the world what kind of person I am
and I can't tell you the number of
really interesting examples of
post-traumatic growth that we're now
cataloguing people who've lost
everything people who've had their kids
murdered in front of them people who've
had just everyman manner of hardship who
are able to choose their response and
rather than shutting down and you know
getting more and more depressed which is
something that you have to get through
but the the choice to take that painful
experience and mold it into something
positive for the world is I think the
deepest kind of healing we can have as
humans and for me I think part of what
got me through those tough times
eventually as I matured was the
knowledge that I had transform that into
something good for the world
[Music]
but I'm not you know the classic Silicon
Valley CEO you know I think that for me
I used to believe that that meant that I
could never really achieve what they
achieve that there were certain parts of
the world certain levels of success or
in levels of business that we're just
going to be too big for me it's like how
can I dare say I'm going to run an
energy company like that I'm going to
build wealth for a community like who
the hell am i how did you get over that
because I think most people have that
but they stop there the first thing that
I did was not think too far ahead so the
idea was instead of imagining from day
one oh I want to build an energy company
it was more imagining or really
envisioning well why am I getting up in
the morning why might you know what's
the point of my day especially also I
think I would add to recently wanting
very much to make sure that little girls
who look like me believe that they can
do anything and believe that they can do
more than just media and entertainment
in particular and believe in the value
of their perspective and so that's what
gets me up in the morning and then
everything else the details it's like it
kind of I can push through that day and
what I found is that instead of trying
to live a successful life if you aim to
have a successful day you know just you
know 12 if you have 13 of the 24 hours
of your days you've won those hours
you've won the day and if you win most
of the days in a week you won the week
you know we just need a simple majority
here right and if you if you win you
know most of the weeks in a month there
you go most of the months in a year most
of the years in a life and and all of a
sudden look at that without even trying
you've been able to kind of get
somewhere and so the the biggest
roadblocks for me were kind of in those
big momentous moments then so like
getting ready to raise the round for
example was one of those big moments
where I realized that without knowing it
I had been building a life up to this
big leap but but it wasn't about
starting there thinking about the leaves
thinking about the big mom
two things that would have to happen
it's like you just go hour by hour day
by day week by week month by month year
by year and then all of a sudden in five
years into working on something I have
the opportunity to raise the largest
round any black ones ever raised in
history and I'm afraid I'm afraid just
by everything I've gone through to get
there I'm afraid and it's because I
still am just like yo I know me and Mark
Zuckerberg went to the same college but
that's about it
I was on the step team I know he wasn't
you know what I mean
like yeah I mean I mean from what I
understand he wasn't I don't you know
but like we we have different we have a
different life and I know that
ultimately these investors are looking
to invest in people that they understand
right I think actually a lot of people I
don't think I'm special in that I think
people like to understand things and in
the worst of times in my business if
they don't understand me they're not
gonna understand my decisions they're
not going to have faith in how I'm going
to get us through this and it was
actually this person who's currently one
of my advisors works for one of the top
pcs out here in the West Coast and he
said without missing a beat
Jessica Mark Zuckerberg could have never
invented the socket uh
you know it is your life it is your
unique perspective it is who you are
that has brought you here so anyone who
invests in you is going to want you to
be who you are they're going to have to
trust that being who you are even if
it's different from who they are but
that's going to be the thing that's
going to take this to the next level no
matter what and I think for me that was
that was the critical piece of advice
right like we all need someone to say
the thing that's been so obvious that
we've just been to head down to to
realize but in the end you know it's
about recognizing the value in our own
struggle being appreciative and aware of
our privilege so that we kind of empathy
for others and their experience it can
we can bridge the gap for them and then
being able to take all of that and own
it say this is who can we curse can I
curse go for it I'll try not to though
I'm not gonna try
you know I mean like this is who the
[__] I am there you go this is who I am
hello who - who you are into who you are
that's great but this is the [__] I am
right take it or leave it like I know
that no matter what happens if I stay
Who I am like I will I will feel good
about it at the end of the day you know
that's all the only thing that's going
to be constant in this ever-changing
world especially in the startup space is
Who I am and so in really meditating on
that and thinking okay you know what I
don't know what's gonna happen with this
round I don't know what's gonna happen
with this company but I do know who I am
let's double down I hope you guys
enjoyed that episode as much as I did I
was blown away by all the amazing
inspiration and quite frankly usable
tactics that these powerhouse women
shared with us and one more time I just
want to thank every one of the
extraordinary women that have come on
this show and shared what they've
learned not only to inspire us but I
think inspire an entire generation
coming up behind them so to each and
every one of you from the bottom of my
heart thank you for coming on I am
eternally grateful and I think I speak
for all of us when I say that we all are
so thank you and if you haven't already
be sure to subscribe and until next time
my friends be legendary take care
alright guys thank you so much for
joining me for that I hope that you got
as much out of those incredibly gifted
women as I did so much amazing stuff is
coming out of female leaders right now
and that's why recently we launched a
new show called the women of impact it's
close to find my amazingly talented wife
Lisa Billy she talks all about how she
went from being a housewife to being a
full-blown entrepreneur as part of the
founding team to built a billion-dollar
company quest and now here at impact
Theory if you want to hear her and other
extraordinary women talking about their
experiences go right now to youtube and
to Instagram it's women of impact